[DOCS-95] Add general details for each section of a pentest report (#104)
cobalthq/cobalt-product-public-docs: content/en/Getting started/What to Expect/report-contents.md

---
title: "What's in a Pentest Report"
linkTitle: "Contents of a Pentest Report"
weight: 310
description: >
  Here's what can you expect in a Pentest Report.
---

{{% pageinfo %}}

> Our pentest reports include what you need to further secure your systems.

Author: Do our pentesters really include "all the information" that our customers need? (Do we include that commitment in our SLA?) I hesitate to make an "absolutist" statement.

Also, "modern day cyberthreats" sounds like marketing, which I want to avoid in standard technical documentation

{{% /pageinfo %}}

> We provide four different types of pentest reports:

Author: ```suggestion
We provide four different types of pentest documents:
```

{{% pentest-report-types %}}

Our Full Report + Finding Details includes all of the following sections. Our other reports
leave out some of these sections. If you've purchased an appropriate {{% ptaas-tier %}}, 

> you can customize what you see in any of these reports.

Author: ```suggestion
you can customize what you see in all of these reports.
```

{{% alert title="Note" color="note" %}}
We do not leave out any finding details from the Full Report + Finding Details report.
{{% /alert %}}

## Target

We include the [Pentest Target](../../pentest-objectives/pentest-target/), the location of

> your asset.

Reviewer: though I've realized it refers to asset (singular) everywhere else in the report, so if we change this we'd have to change it all over.

> your asset.

Author: IIRC, each pentest is of a single asset, so I'd rather not specify a plural.

## Test Period

> We include the dates when we tested your asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We include the dates when we tested your asset. (woo)
```

> We include the dates when we tested your asset. (woo)

Author: ```suggestion
We include the dates when we tested your asset.
```

## Test Performed By

> We include a list of pentesters who analyzed your asset. Each pentester name includes a link

Author: ```suggestion
We include a list of pentester people who analyzed your asset. Each pentester name includes a link
```

to their Cobalt profiles.

## Executive Summary

Our executive summary includes:

- A high-level summary of the tests we performed

> - A table with the number of [findings](../../glossary/#finding) that we identified in different [severity levels](../../../severitylevels/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A table with the number of [findings](../../glossary/#finding) that we identified, categorized by different [severity levels](../../../severitylevels/)
```

Author: Oh that's good.

### Target Description

The report includes information on the asset that we tested, along with the
[environment](../../glossary/#environment) you specified when planning the pentest:

{{% environment %}} 

### In-Scope Testing Methodologies

In this section, we get into more specifics on the tests that we performed. In general,
we test to standards such as:

- [OWASP Top 10](https://owasp.org/Top10/)
- [OWASP Application Security Verification Standard](https://owasp.org/www-project-application-security-verification-standard/)

In this section we include a checklist of the tests that we performed on your assets. Depending
on your asset, it may also include manual and automated steps that we use with black box
and grammar-based fuzzing. For more information, see:

- [OWASP definition of Fuzzing](https://owasp.org/www-community/Fuzzing)
- [A brief introduction to fuzzing and why it's an important tool for developers](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/blog/a-brief-introduction-to-fuzzing-and-why-its-an-important-tool-for-developers/)

### Test Cases that Thwarted Exploitation Attempts

> This section lists the tests that we performed that did _not_ find vulnerabilities
> when we tested your asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section lists the tests that did _not_ find vulnerabilities
while testing your asset.
```

Author: Simplicity ftw.

## Methodology

We list the basic methodologies that we used before, during, and after our tests.

### Pre-Engagement

- Scoping
- Customer
- Documentation
- Information
- Discovery

### Penetration Testing

- Tool-assisted assessment
- Manual assessment
- Exploitation
- Risk Analysis
- Reporting

### Post Engagement

- Prioritized remediation
- Best practice support
- Re-testing

## Risk Factors

We use a modified version of the [OWASP Risk Rating Methodology](https://owasp.org/www-community/OWASP_Risk_Rating_Methodology), based on their business impact and likelihood.
We measure each factor on a scale from 1 (very low) to 5 (very high).

## Severity Definitions

> Based on [Risk Factors](#risk-factors), we assign a rating to each finding, based on the
> following equation:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on [Risk Factors](#risk-factors), we assign a rating to each finding, using the
following equation:

```

Author: More precise, thank you.
